refs:

https://docs.angularjs.org/api
https://code.angularjs.org/1.2.17/docs/api/ng/directive
https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng#directive
https://code.angularjs.org/1.2.17/docs/api/ng/filter
https://code.angularjs.org/1.2.17/docs/api/ng/service



### Two-way data binding

Data-binding in Angular apps is the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components. The way that Angular implements data-binding lets you treat the model as the single-source-of-truth in your application. The view is a projection of the model at all times. When the model changes, the view reflects the change, and vice versa.

So creating <input ng-model="test"> will create test variable. All changes in input value will update test, and all change in test will update input. This feature is called 'two-way binding' and it's one of power features of angular.

>>> Exemplificar <<<

===================================

### Iniciando AngularJS apps

<html lang="pt-br" ng-app>
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>Bootstrap</title>

    <script src="angular.min.js"></script>
<body>

    <p>Testando, mas nada feito {{'ainda' + '!'}}</p>

</body>
</html>

===================================

### Directives

At a high level, directives are markers on a DOM element (such as an attribute, element name, comment or CSS class) that tell AngularJS's HTML compiler ($compile) to attach a specified behavior to that DOM element or even transform the DOM element and its children.

Angular comes with a set of these directives built-in, like ngBind, ngModel, and ngView. Much like you create controllers and services, you can create your own directives for Angular to use. When Angular bootstraps your application, the HTML compiler traverses the DOM matching directives against the DOM elements.

##### ngApp

Use this directive to auto-bootstrap an AngularJS application. The ngApp directive designates the root element of the application and is typically placed near the root element of the page - e.g. on the <body> or <html> tags.

##### ngModel

The ngModel directive binds an input,select, textarea (or custom form control) to a property on the scope using NgModelController, which is created and exposed by this directive.

##### ngController

The ngController directive attaches a controller class to the view. This is a key aspect of how angular supports the principles behind the Model-View-Controller design pattern.

##### ngRepeat

The ngRepeat directive instantiates a template once per item from a collection. Each template instance gets its own scope, where the given loop variable is set to the current collection item, and $index is set to the item index or key.

##### ngSrc

Using Angular markup like {{hash}} in a src attribute doesn't work right: The browser will fetch from the URL with the literal text {{hash}} until Angular replaces the expression inside {{hash}}. The ngSrc directive solves this problem.

##### Events
    ngClick

    The ngClick directive allows you to specify custom behavior when an element is clicked.

    ngChange

    Evaluate the given expression when the user changes the input. The expression is evaluated immediately, unlike the JavaScript onchange event which only triggers at the end of a change (usually, when the user leaves the form element or presses the return key). The expression is not evaluated when the value change is coming from the model.

    ngKeypress

    Specify custom behavior on keypress event.

===================================

### View

In Angular, the view is a projection of the model through the HTML template. This means that whenever the model changes, Angular refreshes the appropriate binding points, which updates the view.

===================================

### Services

Angular services are substitutable objects that are wired together using dependency injection (DI). You can use services to organize and share code across your app.

Angular services are:

    Lazily instantiated – Angular only instantiates a service when an application component depends on it.
    Singletons – Each component dependent on a service gets a reference to the single instance generated by the service factory.

##### $http

The $http service is a core Angular service that facilitates communication with the remote HTTP servers via the browser's XMLHttpRequest object or via JSONP.

##### $location

The $location service parses the URL in the browser address bar (based on the window.location) and makes the URL available to your application. Changes to the URL in the address bar are reflected into $location service and changes to $location are reflected into the browser address bar.

##### $log

Simple service for logging. Default implementation safely writes the message into the browser's console (if present)

##### $timeout

Angular's wrapper for window.setTimeout. The fn function is wrapped into a try/catch block and delegates any exceptions to $exceptionHandler service.

##### $animate

The $animate service provides rudimentary DOM manipulation functions to insert, remove and move elements within the DOM, as well as adding and removing classes. This service is the core service used by the ngAnimate $animator service which provides high-level animation hooks for CSS and JavaScript

===================================

##### Filters

https://code.angularjs.org/1.2.17/docs/api/ng/filter

##### filter

Selects a subset of items from array and returns it as a new array.

##### date

Formats date to a string based on the requested format.

##### number

Formats a number as text.

##### order

Orders a specified array by the expression predicate. It is ordered alphabetically for strings and numerically for numbers. Note: if you notice numbers are not being sorted correctly, make sure they are actually being saved as numbers and not strings.

===================================

### Routing

##### ngRoute

Use ngRoute to enable URL routing to your application. The ngRoute module supports URL management via both hashbang and HTML5 pushState.

##### $routeParams

is used to access the querystring values present in the URL.

##### $route

is used to access the details of the route that is currently being accessed.

##### $routeProvider

is used to register routes for the application.

##### ngView

The ngView directive will display the template of the current route within the page.

===================================

## $scope

$scope is special object designed to allow communication between controller and the view.

OU SEJA:  All variables available on view side are available on $scope in controller, and all values set on $scope we can access in view.

===================================

### ngResources

Use the ngResource module when querying and posting data to a REST API.

##### $resource

The $resource service is used to define RESTful objects which communicate with a REST API.

===================================

### ngCookies

Use the ngCookies module to handle cookie management within your application.

##### $cookie

The $cookie service is a convenient wrapper to store simple data within browser cookies

##### $cookieStore

is used to store more complex data using serialization.